
# Producer Consumer problem Using System V symaphores
This project is an implementation of the Bounded-Buffer Producer/Consumer problem using System V IPC for interprocess communication. There are up to 20 producers that continuously declare the price of one commodity. The prices are generated randomly following a normal distribution with specified mean and standard deviation. The consumer process displays a dashboard of the prices of all commodities along with the average of the current and past 4 readings. It also indicates whether the current price has increased or decreased from the prior one.## Getting Started 
## Running the Producers
- To run a producer, use the following command format:
```
./producer CommodityName Mean StandardDeviation SleepInterval BufferSize
```
- For example, to run a producer for the commodity "GOLD" with a mean of 1820, a standard deviation of 0.5, a sleep interval of 200ms, and a buffer size of 40, the command would be:
```
./producer GOLD 1820 0.5 200 40
```
- The producer will continuously generate new random prices for the specified commodity and add them to the shared buffer. It will also log its actions to stderr.
## Running the Consumer
- To run the consumer, use the following command format:
```
./consumer BufferSize
```
- For example, to run the consumer with a buffer size of 40, the command would be:
```
./consumer 40
```
The consumer will continuously display the dashboard of prices for the specified commodities along with the average of the current and past 4 readings. It will also indicate whether the current price has increased or decreased from the prior one.
### Note
- The project is implemented in C++ and uses semaphores for mutual exclusion and synchronization and shared memory for interprocess communication. 
- The project is limited to the following commodities: GOLD, SILVER, CRUDEOIL, NATURALGAS, ALUMINIUM, COPPER, NICKEL, LEAD, ZINC, MENTHAOIL, and COTTON.
## Compiling the project
To compile the project, use the following command:
```
g++ -o producer producer.cpp -lrt
g++ -o consumer consumer.cpp -lrt
```
This will create the executables "producer" and "consumer" which can be run as described in the previous sections.
## System Requirements
In order to run this project, you will need a system with C++ compiler and System V IPC libraries installed.
## How to use
- Compile the project using the command `g++ -o producer producer.cpp -lrt` and `g++ -o consumer consumer.cpp -lrt`.
- Run the producers using the command format ./producer CommodityName Mean StandardDeviation SleepInterval BufferSize on separate terminals or in the background.
- Run the consumer using the command format ./consumer BufferSize on another terminal.
- The consumer will start displaying the dashboard of prices and the average of the current and past 4 readings.
- The producers will start sending the prices to the buffer and the consumer will read them and update the dashboard.
- The processes will continue to run indefinitely, and the dashboard will be updated continuously.
## Troubleshooting
- If you encounter any issues while running the project, make sure that you have the appropriate permissions to create shared memory and semaphores.
- Check that the buffer size specified in the producer command is the same as the buffer size specified in the consumer command.
- Make sure that the sleep interval specified in the producer command is greater than the time it takes for the producer to write a new price to the buffer and for the consumer to read it, to avoid buffer overflow.
- Check that you have the latest version of C++ installed, as the project uses the standard C++ Random library to generate normally distributed random variables.
- If you are having issues with the clock_gettime() system call, you can use a different method to get the current time.
## Limitations
This project is designed for educational purposes and as such, some simplifications have been made in the implementation. The prices generated by the producers are random and not based on real-world data, and the commodity list is limited to a specific set of commodities. Also, the dashboard is purely text-based and does not include any graphical elements.
## Additional Notes
- The project assumes that the buffer size is greater than or equal to the number of commodities, otherwise, the consumer will not be able to read all the prices.
- The consumer will continuously display the dashboard and it will not stop unless it's killed manually.
- It is important to make sure that the buffer size specified in the producer command is the same as the buffer size specified in the consumer command.
- The sleep interval should be greater than the time it takes for the producer to write a new price to the buffer and for the consumer to read it, to avoid buffer overflow.
- The project uses the standard C++ Random library to generate normally distributed random variables, so make sure to have the latest version of the C++ installed.
- Make sure that you have the appropriate permissions to create shared memory and semaphores.
- The project uses the clock_gettime() system call to get the current time in nanosec resolution, so it may not work on some systems, in that case, you can use a different method to get the current time.
## Conclusion
This project provides a simple implementation of the Bounded-Buffer Producer/Consumer problem using System V IPC. It demonstrates the use of semaphores for mutual exclusion and synchronization and shared memory for interprocess communication. The project can be used as a starting point for further exploration and experimentation with concurrent and parallel programming.

## Acknowledgments
This project is based on the classic Bounded-Buffer Producer/Consumer problem, which is a well-known problem in concurrent and parallel programming. The project was designed and implemented as a learning exercise and is not intended for production use.
## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/) file for details.

## Authors

- [@KyrillosIshak](https://github.com/kyrillosishak)


## Demo

Insert gif or link to demo

